---
title: "About Me"
date: 2023-06-25T00:30:00-04:00
---

&emsp;I am Trevor Leon; from central Pennsylvania, and I am graduating with a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Computer Science from Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU). I have been taking online classes with SNHU since 2019. Throughout my time in the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University, I learned many important concepts that I will continue to use throughout my professional life. I gained tremendous experience in programming languages such as Java and C/C++, algorithms and data structures, communication and collaboration, database concepts, and secure software engineering. After graduation, I plan to continue studying Android development and start my professional career in Android development.

&emsp;I found that communication is key when it comes to software development. I experienced each of the roles of a Scrum-agile team developing a project, learned and followed the steps of the software development lifecycle, and performed software unit testing, automation, and quality assurance (QA). When software is not planned out well or communication with stakeholders is poor, it can cost a lot of extra time and money. Receiving and applying feedback from stakeholders on the product is crucial because only they know what they want it to do and how it should look. It’s paramount that everyone on a development team understands the exact details of how a project is to be implemented.

&emsp;I applied different kinds of algorithms, data structures, and efficient solutions using programming languages such as Java, C/C++, Python, JavaScript, SQL, MongoDB, XML, and Kotlin to solve complex and interesting problems for my classes at SNHU. There are lots of complex real-world problems that can be simplified, solved, or even automated with proper planning and software. I implemented sorting and search algorithms, hash tables and hash maps, simple and complex encryption algorithms, and defined database structures and queries to solve efficiency issues, security concerns, and other real-world problems. These concepts all play a key role in today’s tech-driven world to deliver better-quality software and products.

&emsp;Lastly, implementing security measures such as encryption, data validation and verification, authentication, SQL injection prevention, null safety, and error handling is critical when data is so valuable. Improper security measures can easily lead to a malicious user taking advantage of a vulnerability and manipulating, reading, or stealing important data. Data needs to be protected as much as possible by software so that malicious users cannot damage the system or intercept important information.

---

&emsp;The artifact I decided to focus on and upgrade for my Computer Science Capstone is the Login activity of my Inventory application that I developed for my Mobile Architecture and Development class. The original Login activity was written in Java, utilized non-standard input validation, and did not encrypt usernames and passwords stored in the database. I designed the new Login app with the Kotlin programming language, properly validated user input and provided clear error messages for the user, and encrypted sensitive user login information such as emails and passwords. The GitHub repositories include descriptive readme files for each of the projects which can be found below and in the following enhancement posts:


[CS-360: Inventory application](https://github.com/trevor-leon/CS-360_Mobile_Arch_and_Programming)

[CS-499: Kotlin Login](https://github.com/trevor-leon/CS-499-Kotlin-Login)

---

The enhancements detailed in the following posts provide narratives explaining the work I did, and they showcase my skills and abilities in these categories:

- [Software design and engineering](https://trevor-leon.github.io/enhancement-one/) 
- [Algorithms and data structure](https://trevor-leon.github.io/enhancement-two/)
- [Databases](https://trevor-leon.github.io/enhancement-three/)

---
