---
title: "Enhancement Two: Algorithms & Data Structures"

---

&emsp;The artifact I have selected to improve to prove my ability in algorithms and data structure is the Inventory application I created around a year ago for my Mobile Architecture and Development class. Specifically, I rewrote the Login Activity in Kotlin instead of Java because Google considers it to be the best new way to develop Android apps. I wanted to better expand on the functionality of the activity. The original project simply disabled the login and account creation buttons when there was no input in the email and password text fields, and it did not encrypt the login details when storing them. Important user information such as an email address and password should be encrypted. Additionally, the original project did not store IDs for the objects but used the String usernames and item names as the primary keys of each object.
  
&emsp;My rewritten Login screen allows the buttons always be displayed, and it properly lets the user know if the input email username does not follow an email address pattern, and the input password follows secure password patterns (uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols; for example). This clearly shows that I designed and evaluated computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution while managing the trade-offs. I developed a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and design to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources by creating a CryptoManager class that algorithmically develops an encryption key to store in an encrypted file on the device if the file hasn’t been created yet. Then, this key is used by the SQLCipher class with the Room database to encrypt and decrypt data flowing in and out of it. Regarding the data structure of the Login class, I gave each Login an ID as the primary key, but also ensured that each username/email was unique when storing them.
  
&emsp;Developing this part of the project helped deepen my understanding of algorithms and data structures in general and how important it is to plan them out. It made me think more about what should be included in a data structure, and what can be excluded. Originally, I thought my idea of hiding the buttons when the username and password text fields had no input was unique and innovative, but it wasn’t necessary. Simply letting the user know when they have input something invalid is much easier, more user-friendly, and more informative. It’s also useful to store an ID for the user because any program that extends this login screen will probably want to pass that user ID to the next screen to use for the application.
