---
title: "About Me"
date: 2023-06-23T19:00:00-04:00
---

&emsp;I am Trevor Leon; from central Pennsylvania, and I am graduating from Southern New Hampshire University’s Computer Science program. Throughout my time in the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University, I learned many important concepts that I will continue to use throughout my professional life. I gained trenendous experience in programming languages such as Java and C/C++, algorithms and data structures, communication and collaboration, database concepts, and secure software engineering.

&emsp;Communication is key when it comes to software development. I took on each of the roles of a Scrum team to develop a project, learned about the software development lifecycle, and performed software unit testing, automation, and QA. When software is not planned out well or communication with stakeholders is poor, it can cost a lot of extra time and money. It’s paramount that everyone understands the exact details of how a project is to be implemented.

&emsp;I applied different kinds of algorithms, data structures, and solutions using programming languages such as Java, C/C++, Python, JavaScript, SQL, MongoDB, XML, and Kotlin to solve complex and interesting problems. There are lots of complex real-world problems that can be simplified or even automated with some planning and software. For example, I have implemented sorting and search algorithms, hash tables and hash maps, simple and complex encryption algorithms, and database structures and queries. These concepts all play a key role in today’s tech-driven world to deliver quality software and products.

&emsp;Lastly, implementing security measures such as encryption, data validation and verification, authentication, SQL injection prevention, nullability, and error handling is critical when data is so valuable. Improper security measures can easily lead to a malicious user taking advantage of vulnerabilities and manipulating, reading, or stealing important data. Malicious users need to be restricted as much as possible by software so that they cannot damage the system or intercept important information.

---

&emsp;The artifact I decided to focus on and upgrade for my Computer Science Capstone is the Login activity of my Inventory application that I developed for my Mobile Architecture and Development class. The original Login activity was written in Java, utilized non-standard input validation, and did not encrypt usernames and passwords stored in the database. I made the new Login app by rewriting it in the Kotlin programming language, properly validated user input and provided clear error messages for the user, and encrypted sensitive user login information such as emails and passwords. The GitHub repositories include descriptive readme files for each of the projects which can be found below and in the following enhancement posts:


[CS-360: Inventory application](https://github.com/trevor-leon/CS-360_Mobile_Arch_and_Programming)

[CS-499: Kotlin Login](https://github.com/trevor-leon/CS-499-Kotlin-Login)

The enhancements detailed in the following posts showcase my skills and abilities in these categories:


- Software design and engineering 
- Algorithms and data structure
- Databases

---
