---
title: "Enhancement Three: Databases"
date: 2023-06-23T15:00:00-04:00
---

&emsp;The artifact I have selected to improve to demonstrate my ability in algorithms and data structure is the [Inventory application](https://github.com/trevor-leon/CS-360_Mobile_Arch_and_Programming/tree/main) I created almost a year ago for my Mobile Architecture and Development class. Specifically, I rewrote the Login Activity in Kotlin instead of Java because Google considers it the best new way to develop Android apps. I wanted to follow best practices and utilize a Room database, which acts as an abstraction of a SQLite database to reduce boilerplate code and avoid common oversights such as SQL injection. The original Inventory app used regular SQLite databases, did not store IDs as primary keys, and was not encrypted. It also created a HashMap of all the Logins from the Login database to check if the username/password combination is correct rather than checking the database itself.

&emsp;For my [Kotlin Login activity](https://github.com/trevor-leon/CS-499-Kotlin-Login), I demonstrated an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals by implementing the recommended pipeline of components to utilize the database such as Room entities defining each row or object of the database; the data access objects (DAOs) that define operations such as insert, update, delete, and queries; and repository that utilizes the DAOs to manipulate the data in the database. Additionally, I added IDs to each user as a primary key in the database and ensured each email address is unique. Lastly, I added and utilized direct data access functions to determine if a login is in the database rather than getting a HashMap and verifying it with that. These factors clearly show that I designed and evaluated computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices.

&emsp;When developing my Room database, I learned a lot about Room itself, database best practices, and the pipeline to access data within the database when developing Android apps with Kotlin. I also learned the importance of planning queries that are required for the development of the app. For example, I initially did not realize that I would need both a query to validate a login and a query to determine if a username already exists in the database. These were required because of the different needs of both the login and account creation buttons. The account creation button only needs to determine if the username is already in the database, while the login button needs both the username and password.

---
